April 8, 2022
Carina Medical LLC
℅ Xue Feng
Chief Executive Officer
1233 Litchfield Ln
Lexington, KY 40513

Re: K212274
Trade/Device Name: INT Contour
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.5050
Regulation Name: Medical Charged-Particle Radiation Therapy System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: MUJ, QKB
Dated: July 20, 2021
Received: July 20, 2021
Dear Xue Feng:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov

Doc ID# 04017.04.32

K212274 - Xue Feng

Page 2

803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reportingcombination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reportingmdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medicaldevices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatoryassistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,

Julie Sullivan -S
Julie Sullivan, Ph.D.
Assistant Director
Nuclear Medicine and Radiation Therapy
Division of Radiological Health
OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics and Radiological
Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center For Devices and Radiological Health
Enclosure

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Food and Drug Administration

Indications for Use

Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
See PRA Statement below.

510(k) Number (if known)
K212274
Device Name
INTContour

Indications for Use (Describe)
INTContour provides a machine learning-based approach for the automatic segmentation of structures including treatment
targets and organs at risk to support the radiation therapy treatment planning process. INTContour is intended as an initial
method to segment and contour study series; therefore, this software must be used in conjunction with an appropriate
software to edit the segmentation results if necessary. It is not intended to replace a thorough review by qualified medical
professionals. INTContour is developed for use by dosimetrists, medical physicists, and radiation oncologists. The
currently supported anatomical regions for automatic segmentation are head and neck, thorax, abdomen, and male pelvis.

Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
X Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)

E Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)

CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.
This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
*DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Office of Chief Information Officer
Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
"An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number."
FORM FDA 3881 (6120)

Page 1 of 1

PSC Publishing Serces (SO) 443-6740

EE

K212274

Innovative and Intelligent

Summary 510(k)

1. Applicant:
Carina Medical LLC
1233 Lichfield Ln
Lexington, KY, 40513
USA
Contact Name: Xue Feng – Chief Executive Officer
Phone: 434-284-1073
Fax: 855-615-2856
E-mail: xfeng@carinaai.com

2. Device:
Trade Name: INTContour
Common Name: Intelligent Organ Contouring System
Model Number: v1.0
Product Code: MUJ
Regulation Description: Medical charged-particle radiation therapy system
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.5050
Device Class: II

3. Predicate Devices:
Trade Name: Smart Segmentation – Knowledge Based Contouring

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

https://www.carinaai.com/

Innovative and Intelligent
Manufacturer: Varian Medical Systems, Inc.
Address: 3100 Hansen Way, Palo Alto, CA, 94303
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.5050
Regulation Name: Medical charged-particle radiation therapy system
Device Class: II
Product Code: MUJ
510(k) Number: K141248
510(k) Clearance Date: 09/05/2014

4. Reference Device:
Trade Name: AccuContour
Manufacturer: Xiamen Manteia Technology LTD.
Address: 1903, B Tower, Zijin Plaza, No.1811 Huandao East Road, Xiamen, China
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Picture archiving and communications system
Device Class: II
Product Code: QKB
510(k) Number: K191928
510(k) Clearance Date: 02/28/2020

5. Device Description
INTContour is a software-only product that uses a machine learning-based approach to perform
automatic segmentation of structures in medical images, coupled with tools for visualizing the
segmentation results. A library of previously contoured expert cases serves as inputs to train the
machine learning algorithms, specifically, convolutional neural networks (CNNs), to perform

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

https://www.carinaai.com/

Innovative and Intelligent
automatic segmentation. The results of the automatic segmentation will be stored in the DICOM
Radiotherapy Structure Set (RTSTRUCT) format, which can be sent to desired destinations via
the DICOM protocol.

INTContour is intended to be used by dosimetrists, medical physicists, and radiation
oncologists, and serves as an initial method to segment and contour study series. It must be
used in conjunction with appropriate software to edit the segmentation results if necessary. The
currently supported anatomical regions for automatic segmentation are head and neck, thorax,
abdomen, and male pelvis. The supported structures for each region are shown below in
section 10.

INTContour software is intended to be deployed within a hospital’s private network on a
workstation with an advanced graphics processing unit (GPU) and runs as a service. A webbased interface is used to access the service and manage the transfer of data, automatic
segmentation, and visualization.

6. Intended Use Statement
INTContour provides a machine learning-based approach for automatic segmentation of
structures including treatment targets and organs at risk to support the radiation therapy
treatment planning process.

7. Indications for Use Statement
INTContour provides a machine learning-based approach for the automatic segmentation of
structures including treatment targets and organs at risk to support the radiation therapy
treatment planning process. INTContour is intended as an initial method to segment and
contour study series; therefore, this software must be used in conjunction with an appropriate
software to edit the segmentation results if necessary. It is not intended to replace a thorough
review by qualified medical professionals. INTContour is developed for use by dosimetrists,
medical physicists, and radiation oncologists. The currently supported anatomical regions for

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

https://www.carinaai.com/

Innovative and Intelligent
automatic segmentation are head and neck, thorax, abdomen, and male pelvis. The supported
structures for each region are shown below in Section 10.

8. Summary of Technological Characteristics Comparison
Table 1 shows the similarities and differences between the technological characteristics of the
two products. The key difference is the detailed implementation of the automated segmentation
algorithms. Testing demonstrates that the differences do not raise new questions of safety or
effectiveness.

Table 1. Summary of Technological Characteristic Comparison
Topic

Predicate Device

Subject Device

Physical

Software package that operates on

Software package that operates on a

Characteristics

off-the-shelf hardware

virtual machine within the off-the-shelf
hardware

Computer

PC Compatible

Same

Operating

Windows

Ubuntu (18.04 & 20.04)

System
DICOM Standard The software processes DICOM
Compliance

Same

compliant image data, including
RTSTRUCT

Modalities

CT & MRI

Same

User Interface

The software is designed for use on a The software is designed for use on a
radiotherapy workstation with a native radiotherapy workstation with a web-

Segmentation

user interface.

based user interface

Organs at risk and target volumes

Same

Structures

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

https://www.carinaai.com/

Innovative and Intelligent
Overall

Model-based approach using a library Same

Segmentation

of expert contours

Method
Detailed

Smart Segmentation – knowledge-

INTContour used a machine learning-

Implementation based contouring used an atlas-based based method to train CNNs from
of Segmentation method to deform expert contours to
Algorithm

expert contours to perform

the target images to generate contours segmentation on the target images to
generate contours

Support of

Yes

No

Yes

No

Manual Editing
Provide Expert
Case Library to
Users

9. Performance Data
The safety and performance of INTContour has been evaluated and verified in accordance with
software specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and
validation testing. Non-clinical verification and validation test results, including model
performance and software usability, established that the device meets its design requirements
and intended use, that it is as safe and as effective as the predicate devices, and that no new
issues of safety and effectiveness were raised.

Testing data was acquired from multiple sources than the training data that covers head and
neck, thorax, abdomen, and male pelvis regions. The cases were selected from patients who
went through radiation treatment with age 18 – 76, both male and female and various types of
cancers. Ground truth was performed by at least two trained personnel including dosimetrist,
medical physicist and/or radiation oncologist to minimize human bias in segmentation.

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

https://www.carinaai.com/

Innovative and Intelligent
Further, during the development, potential hazards were controlled by a risk management plan
including risk analysis, risk mitigation, verification and validation.

10. Results
The Dice metric and 95% Hausdorff Distance (HD95) were calculated for each organ. Statistical
analysis on the test data was performed by comparing the calculated metrics of INTContour
against the predicate/reference device. Dice metric was used for large organs and HD95 was
used for small organs to define the acceptance criteria due to the large variations on Dice metric
on small organs. By comparing the lower bound (Dice) or upper bound (HD95) of the
performance differences between INTContour and the predicate/reference device with the
threshold values, all organs have passed the acceptance criteria and demonstrated the noninferiority against the predicate/reference device.
The table below shows the list of all supported organs:
Head and Neck

Thorax

Brainstem

Pituitary

SpinalCanal

Spleen

Bladder

OpticChiasm

InnerEar_L

Lung_R

Kidney_R

Femur_Head_L

Bone_Mandible

InnerEar_R

Lung_L

Kidney_L

Femur_Head_R

OpticNrv_L

Lens_L

Heart

Gallbladder

PenileBulb

OpticNrv_R

Lens_R

Esophagus

Esophagus

Prostate

Parotid_L

Lobe_Temporal_L

Trachea

Liver

SeminalVesicle

Parotid_R

Lobe_Temporal_R

BronchialTree

Stomach

Rectum

Glnd_Submand_L

Larynx

SpinalCord

A_Aorta

Glnd_Submand_R

Cavity_Oral

V_Venacava_I

Eye_L

Pharynx

PortalVein

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

Abdomen

Male Pelvis

https://www.carinaai.com/

Innovative and Intelligent

Eye_R

Brain

Pancreas

MidEar_L

Cochlea_L

AdrenalGland_R

MidEar_R

Cochlea_R

AdrenalGland_L

Joint_TM_L

Glnd_Lacrimal_L

SplenicVein

Joint_TM_R

Glnd_Lacrimal_R

BrachialPlex_L

BrachialPlex_R

11. Substantial Equivalence Conclusion
INTContour is an automatic segmentation software to support the radiation treatment planning
process which has similar intended use and indications for use statement as the predicate
device. The two devices have similar technological characteristics: both algorithms rely on a
library of expert contours and use model-based approach to generate contours on new images.
This 510(k) submission includes information on the INTContour technological characteristics, as
well as performance data and verification and validation activities demonstrating that
INTContour is as safe and effective as the predicate, and does not raise different questions of
safety and effectiveness.

info@carinaai.com

+1 434-284-1073

https://www.carinaai.com/

