Ever Fortune.AI Co., Ltd.
℅ Ti-Hao Wang, MD
Chief Technology Officer
Rm. D, 8F. No. 573, Sec. 2 Taiwan Blvd., West Dist.
Taichung City, 403020
Taiwan

April 28, 2022

Re: K220264
Trade/Device Name: EFAI RTSuite CT HN-Segmentation System
Regulation Number: 21 CFR 892.2050
Regulation Name: Medical Image Management And Processing System
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: QKB
Dated: January 28, 2022
Received: January 31, 2022
Dear Ti-Hao Wang:
We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.
If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.
Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov

Doc ID# 04017.04.32

K220264 - Ti-Hao Wang

Page 2

801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reportingcombination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.
Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reportingmdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medicaldevices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatoryassistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).
Sincerely,

Julie Sullivan -S
Julie Sullivan, PhD
Assistant Director
Division of Radiological Health
OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
and Radiological Health
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
Enclosure

K220264

EFAI HNSeg Traditional 510(k)

K220264

Section 5. 510(k) Summary
1. General Information
510(k) Sponsor
Address

Applicant
Contact Information
Correspondence Person
Contact Information
Date Prepared

Ever Fortune.AI Co., Ltd.
Rm. D, 8F. No. 573, Sec. 2 Taiwan Blvd.
West Dist.
Taichung City 403020
TAIWAN
Joseph Chang
886-04-23213838 #216
joseph.chang@everfortune.ai
Ti-Hao Wang, MD
886-04-23213838 #168
tihao.wang@everfortune.ai
January 29, 2022

2. Proposed Device
Proprietary Name
Common Name
Classification Name
Regulation Number
Regulation Name
Product Code
Regulatory Class

EFAI RTSuite CT HN-Segmentation System v1.0
EFAI HNSeg v1.0
Picture Archiving and Communications System
21 CFR 892.2050
Medical Image Management and Processing System
QKB
II

3. Predicate Device
Proprietary Name
Premarket Notification
Classification Name
Regulation Number
Regulation Name
Product Code
Regulatory Class

EFAI HNSeg Traditional 510(k)

AccuContour
K191928
Picture Archiving and Communications System
21 CFR 892.2050
Medical Image Management and Processing System
QKB
II

Page 1 of 5

K220264

4. Device Description
EFAI RTSuite CT HN-Segmentation System, herein referred to as EFAI HNSeg, is a standalone
software that is designed to be used by trained radiation oncology professionals to automatically
delineate head-and-neck organs-at-risk (OARs) on CT images. This auto-contouring of OARs is
intended to facilitate radiation therapy workflows.
The device receives CT images in DICOM format as input and automatically generates the
contours of OARs, which are stored in DICOM format and in RTSTRUCT modality. The device
does not offer a user interface and must be used in conjunction with a DICOM-compliant treatment
planning system to review and edit results. Once data is routed to EFAI HNSeg, the data will be
processed and no user interaction is required, nor provided.
The deployment environment is recommended to be in a local network with an existing hospitalgrade IT system in place. EFAI HNSeg should be installed on a specialized server supporting deep
learning processing. The configurations are only being operated by the manufacturer:
● Local network setting of input and output destinations;
● Presentation of labels and their color;
● Processed image management and output (RTSTRUCT) file management.
5. Intended Use
EFAI HNSeg is a software device intended to assist trained radiation oncology professionals,
including, but not limited to, radiation oncologists, medical physicists, and dosimetrists, during
their clinical workflows of radiation therapy treatment planning by providing initial contours of
organs at risk in the head and neck region on non-contrast CT images. EFAI HNSeg is intended
to be used on adult patients only.
The contours are generated by deep-learning algorithms and then transferred to radiation therapy
treatment planning systems. EFAI HNSeg must be used in conjunction with a DICOM-compliant
treatment planning system to review and edit results generated. EFAI HNSeg is not intended to be
used for decision making or to detect lesions.
EFAI HNSeg is an adjunct tool and is not intended to replace a clinician's judgment and manual
contouring of the normal organs on CT. Clinicians must not use the software generated output
alone without review as the primary interpretation.
6. Comparison of Technological Characteristics with Predicate Device
Table below provides a comparison of the intended use and key technological features of EFAI
HNSeg with that of the Primary Predicate, AccuContour™ (K191928).

EFAI HNSeg Traditional 510(k)

Page 2 of 5

K220264

Table - Comparison with the Predicate Device.
Company
Device Name
510k Number
Regulation No.
Classification
Product Code

Ever Fortune.AI Co., Ltd. (EFAI)
EFAI HNSeg
Pending
21CFR 892.2050
II
QKB
EFAI HNSeg is a software device
intended to assist trained radiation
oncology professionals, including,
but not limited to, radiation
oncologists, medical physicists,
and dosimetrists, during their
clinical workflows of radiation
therapy treatment planning by
providing initial contours of organs
at risk in the head and neck region
on non-contrast CT images. EFAI
HNSeg is intended to be used on
adult patients only.

Xiamen Manteia Technology LTD.
AccuContour™
K191928
21CFR 892.2050
II
QKB
It is used by radiation oncology
department to register
multimodality images and segment
(non-contrast) CT images, to
generate needed information for
treatment planning, treatment
evaluation and treatment adaptation.

The product has two image process
functions:
(1) Deep learning contouring: it can
automatically contour the organ-atrisk, including head and neck,
thorax, abdomen and pelvis (for
The contours are generated by both male and female),
deep-learning algorithms and then (2) Automatic Registration, and
transferred to radiation therapy (3) Manual Contour.
Intended Use/Indication treatment planning systems. EFAI
for Use
HNSeg must be used in conjunction It also has the following general
with
a
DICOM-compliant functions:
treatment planning system to (1) Receive, add/edit/delete,
review and edit results generated. transmit, input/export, medical
EFAI HNSeg is not intended to be images and DICOM data;
used for decision making or to (2) Patient management;
detect lesions.
(3) Review of processed images;
(4) Open and save of files.
EFAI HNSeg is an adjunct tool and
is not intended to replace a
clinician's judgment and manual
contouring of the normal organs on
CT. Clinicians must not use the
software generated output alone
without review as the primary
interpretation.
Segmentation
(Contouring)
Technology
Operating System

Deep learning

Deep learning

Linux Ubuntu 20.04

Microsoft Windows

EFAI HNSeg Traditional 510(k)

Page 3 of 5

K220264

User Population

Supported Modalities
Image Input
Compatible Scanner
Models
Localization and
Definition of Objects
(ROI)
Compatible
Treatment Planning
System

Automated
Workflow

User Interface

Trained medical professionals
including, but not limited to,
radiation oncologists, medical
physicists, and dosimetrists.
Non-contrast CT
Complies with DICOM standard
No Limitation on scanner model
DICOM 3.0 compliance required.
Organ-at risk of head and neck
region
No Limitation on TPS model,
DICOM compliance required.
EFAI HNSeg automatically
processes input image data and
sends the results as DICOM-RT
Structure Sets to a userconfigurable
target node.
No

It is used by radiation oncology
department.
Segmentation Features: NonContrast CT
Registration Features: CT, MRI,
PET
Complies with DICOM standard
No Limitation on scanner model
DICOM 3.0 compliance
required.
Organ-at-risk, including head and
neck, thorax, abdomen and pelvis
(for both male and female)
No Limitation on TPS model,
DICOM 3.0 compliance required.

AccuContour automatically
processes input image data

Yes

The proposed device, EFAI HNSeg, is substantially equivalent to the claimed predicate,
AccuContour™ (K191928).
7. Performance Data
Performance of the EFAI HNSeg v1.0 has been evaluated and verified in accordance with software
specifications and applicable performance standards through software verification and validation
testing. Additionally, the software validation activities were performed in accordance with IEC
62304:2006/A1:2016 - Medical device software – Software life cycle processes, in addition to the
FDA Guidance documents, “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software
Contained in Medical Devices”(2005) and the recently published “Content of Premarket
submissions for Devices Software Functions (11-04-2021), and “Content of Premarket Submission
for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices.”
To establish the contour performance of EFAI HNSeg, a non-inferiority standalone performance
test was performed. This non-inferiority test compared the mean Dice coefficient of the
automatically generated head and neck OAR contours for EFAI HNSeg against that of the
predicate device, AccuContour™. The results demonstrate that the EFAI HNSeg device was noninferior to the predicate by at least a non-inferiority limit of 0.1 Dice, which was the largest
EFAI HNSeg Traditional 510(k)

Page 4 of 5

K220264

difference that is clinically acceptable based on previous studies, and thus we conclude that
equivalence has been demonstrated.
8. Conclusion
Based on the information submitted in this premarket notification, and based on the indications for
use, technological characteristics, and performance testing, the EFAI HNSeg v1.0 raises no new
questions of safety and effectiveness and is substantially equivalent to the predicate device in terms
of safety, effectiveness, and performance.

EFAI HNSeg Traditional 510(k)

Page 5 of 5

